project	countries	Info	reference	link_reference	Link_standalone
Czech	Czech Republic	Data and other know-how for this tree selection tool in conditions of the Czech Republic were provided from publication (certified methodology) Practices and components of agroforestry systems recommended for the restoration and strengthening of environmental functions of landscape which was main result of the research project EPSILON TH04030409 of TACR (2019-2022). The input database was updated and adapted for use in the on-line tool AgroforetsTreeAdvice by following authors: Jan Weger, Luboš Úradníček, Antonín Martiník, Tadeáš Staněk and Marie Gosme.	Weger J, Lojka B, Dumbrovský M, et al (2022) Doporučené postupy a komponenty agrolesnických systémů pro obnovu a posílení mimoprodukčních funkcí krajiny [Recommended practices and components of agroforestry systems for the restoration and enhancement of non-productive landscape functions]. VÚKOZ v.v.i., Průhonice, Česká Republika	https://www.vukoz.cz/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/Metodika-ALS-Epsilon-fin-3.pdf	
DECIDUOUS	France	Deciduous was developed for all farmers interested in integrating fruit trees in their arable plots or pastures. Fruit trees are fragile trees need more attention than timber trees but are more profitable. Attention has to be paid to frost risk, soil characteristics, time available, tree height, etc. More than 20 French experts have been committed for building a strong database providing a significant support for tree choice, either for silvopasture or alley cropping systems.	Warlop F, Paut R, Volant A (2024) DECIDUOUS, a new online tool to help choosing fruit trees for agroforestry. Brno, Czech Republic.	https://hal.science/hal-04723563v1/document	https://paut-et-al.shinyapps.io/OAD_AF_Fruits/
GoÖko	Germany	The GoÖko Hedgerow Manager is a online DSS tool for the management and planning of hedges in agricultural areas, taking sustainability aspects into account (Tsonkova et al. 2019). In addition to a step-by-step guide, the web application also includes a woody plant database. The hedgerow manager was developed between 2019 and 2021 as part of the “GoÖko” project by BTU Cottbus-Senftenberg. The woody plant database includes 59 tree and shrub species. The location and climate requirements, habitats of the woody plants, utilization aspects, landscape aesthetic and cultural significance as well as the indicator values according to Ellenberg are compiled in the database. The decision support tool is based on this, for example when selecting the right tree species for a specific location. Once the target area has been selected, hedges can be managed, transformed or entirely replanted. The ecosystem services are evaluated in relation to the status quo. Finally, a pdf is generated that covers all previously defined planning aspects, including a planting plan and order lists for obtaining quotations.	Tsonkova P, Böhm C, Hübner R, Ehritt J (2019) Managing hedgerows to optimise ecosystem services in agroforestry systems. In: Mosquera-Losada MR, Prabhu R (eds) Burleigh Dodds Series in Agricultural Science. Burleigh Dodds Science Publishing, pp 39–88		https://hecken-landschaft.de/start
DENTRO	Belgium	DENTRO was initially developed as an Excel based tree species matrix scoring a list of nearly 60 tree species suited for agroforestry in Flanders on over 30 characteristics. It is intended to support farmers, advisors and other stakeholders in making well-considered choices when selecting tree species and cultivars for their agroforestry systems. While DENTRO was initially part of a broader decision support tool for agroforestry plan development (called BETULA), it can now also be consulted separately. It is a dynamically evolving tool: the current version is mainly aimed at tree selection at species level, however, the developers intend to extent the applicability to selection at cultivar or rootstock level. Simultaneously, there are concrete plans to expand the parameter list at species level, by adding e.g. tree growth information, fruit productivity, wood density data, etc. As such, the DENTRO database could become a database not only to be consulted for tree species selection but also for other modeling modules such as carbon storage prediction or economic tools. DENTRO is part of the modular decision support system “Agroforestry Planner”. 	Reubens B, Van Daele S, Bracke J, et al (2024) DENTRO Tree Matrix: dataset behind DENTRO - a Tree Species Selection Guide for Agroforestry	https://doi.org/10.5281/ZENODO.10889582	https://www.agroforestryvlaanderen.be/en/agroforestry-planner-2
JBOJP	Netherlands	JBOJP (“De Juiste Boom op de Juiste Plek”) is a Dutch tree selection tool that was developed by Jade Reforestry, Stichting ReGeneratie/Van Eijk: Consultantree, Louis Bolk Instituut, and Hogeschool Van Hall Larenstein. The name of the tool translates as “the right tree in the right place” and was developed because of a need for better decision support systems with advice on tree species selection and tree management. It is an excel-based tool with 90 tree- and shrub species integrated. Users can specify their groundwater levels, soil types, and economic objectives, and the tool advices a list of suitable species. The groundwater and soil type categories follow publicly available spatial datasets from the “Basisregistratie Ondergrond”. The economic objectives are “food production” (having the option to choose more common species, or less common species), “system support”, and “wood production”. The advice follows a “traffic light” logic. The green list indicates the immediately suitable species. The orange list indicate species that could be suitable, but only under the condition that specific interventions around tree planting or maintenance are taken in order to have the best chance at a high survival rate, high productivity, etc. For instance, for one species in this orange list, drought stress could be a limitation, and the tool suggests six measures that can be taken to alleviate drought stress. For another species in the orange list, anaerobic conditions could be a limitation, and the tool suggest four measures for aeration. All limitations are: drought stress, water logging, poor soils, compaction/anaerobic conditions, species invasiveness, weak rootstock, inaptness for peat soils. For all limitations, measures are suggested.	de Kleijn C (2024) De juiste boom op de juiste plek	https://kennisbank.agroforestrynetwerk.nl/de-juiste-boom-op-de-juiste-plek/)	https://kennisbank.agroforestrynetwerk.nl/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Online-tool_-Juiste-Boom-op-de-Juiste-Plek-V1.1-240315.xlsx
SCSM	Netherlands	SCSM was initially developed in node.js as part of the RegenWorks agroforestry design software. The species selection model uses hardiness zones and climate zones as a way to identify suitable species for a particular climate. The main approach for this model was to have a global dataset and an adjoined model that can be used to screen a wide range of species for a specific climate. Because of the simple nature of the model, it is not well suited to determine suitable species for a specific piece of land, but rather can be used as a screening tool to explore alternative species and narrow the scope of potential species.			https://regenfarmer.com/agroforestry-planning-software/
STA	Cameroon, China, Colombia, Ghana, Laos, Nicaragua, Tanzania, Uganda, Vietnam	ShadeTreeAdvice (shortened to STA in the tables) is an online decision-support tool launched in 2016, initially focusing on tree species selection for coffee agroforestry in Uganda (Van Der Wolf et al. 2016). Since then, it has been used in over 10 studies worldwide, primarily in coffee and cocoa agroforestry but with potential for other crops, including temperate ones (Rigal et al. 2022). The tool aggregates and consolidates farmers' local ecological knowledge, gathering their experiences with different tree species and assigning scores to each species based on their efficiency to provide different services (e.g., soil fertility, weather protection, added revenue). On the online tool, farmers can select the services they desire most from shade trees, and the tool ranks tree species by suitability for those needs.	Rigal C, Wagner S, Nguyen MP, et al (2022) ShadeTreeAdvice methodology: Guiding tree-species selection using local knowledge. PEOPLE Nat 4:1233–1248.	https://doi.org/10.1002/pan3.10374	https://www.shadetreeadvice.org/
SUOMI	Finland	The Finnish tree suitability database was developed by Juha Ujula and Iiris Mattila as part of a book project (Mattila 2023) which was one of the first initiatives of collecting information on the possibilities for agroforestry in Finland. The database was developed to help farmers with an interest in agroforestry to select tree species suitable to the Finnish climate as well as to find species which would match the objectives of the farmer, be it for example wood, fruit,  fodder,  biomass production, or delivery of ecosystem services. The database was compiled by reviewing available literature on tree species suitable to Finland and contains data on tree products (wood, fruit, sap, nuts, biomass), use of the trees (grazing, alley cropping, buffer strip, windbreak), soil (humidity, soil fertility, soil texture), tree size, site orientation (sunny, shady), and Finnish climate zone (I-VIII, ranging from temperate to sub-arctic). 	Mattila I (2023) Puustoinen maatalous Suomessa - opas suunnitteluun, katsaus kulttuurinmuutokseen	https://zenodo.org/records/8418298	
UK Guide	UK	the Tree Species Guide for UK Agroforestry Systems contains 15 attributes for 33 tree species. This guide is in the form of a pdf document, but the authors are considering converting it into an online tool. 	Staton T, Beauchamp K, Broome A, Breeze T (2024) Tree Species Guide for UK Agroforestry Systems	https://cdn.forestresearch.gov.uk/2024/11/READING-AGROFORESTY-Accessible.pdf	
